# Django

### 1. What is Django?
Django is an open-source, back-end serverside web framework which makes it easier to build
web pages using Python. It is one of the most popular web server frameworks because it
enables rapid development of secure and maintainable websites.


### 2. What are the benefits?
* can be used to build almost any type of website (e.g. cms, wikis, social networks, news sites etc.)
* everything needed is part of the one "product"
* provides a secure way to manage user accounts and passwords
* enables protection against many vulnerabilities by default (incl. SQL injection, cross-site scripting, cross-site request forgery)
* each part of the architecture is independent of the others, and can hence be replaced or changed if needed
* is written in Python (so it runs on many platforms)


### 3. What are the drawbacks?
* There are no conventions (the framework doesn’t have a set of principles that developers can follow for web development)
* is not suitable for smaller projects (too high-end, requires a lot of coding)
* The framework is considered as a single package, which is not a good thing. The lower dependencies Django have, the more code, developers will have to write.
* steep learning curve


### 4. What is an ORM?
Object-Relational Mapping is a technique that allows to query and manipulate data from
a database using an object-oriented paradigm. An ORM library encapsulates the code needed
to manipulate the data, so there is no need to use SQL anymore; we can interact directly with
an object in the same language we're using.

Retrieving a dataset from the database example:

Without ORM:

    book_list = new List();
    sql = "SELECT book FROM library WHERE author = 'Linus'";
    data = query(sql); // I over simplify ...
    while (row = data.next())
    {
    book = new Book();
    book.setAuthor(row.get('author');
    book_list.add(book);
    }

With ORM:

    book_list = BookTable.query(author="Linus");



### 5. Explain the Django architecture?
Django is based on MVT (Model-View-Template) architecture.

#### MVT:

* <b>Model:</b> The logical data structure behind the entire application, represented by a database
  (generally relational databases such as MySql, Postgres). Generally, each model maps to a single database table.

* <b>View:</b> The View is the user interface — what you see in your browser when you render a website.
  (HTML/CSS/Javascript)

* <b>Template:</b> A template consists of static parts of the desired HTML output as well as some special
  syntax describing how dynamic content will be inserted.


### 7. What are "static files"?
Aside from the HTML generated by the server, web applications generally need to serve additional files — such as images,
JavaScript, or CSS — necessary to render the complete web page. In Django, we refer to these files as “static files”.
For small projects, this isn’t a big deal, because you can keep the static files somewhere your web server can find it.
However, in bigger projects – especially those comprised of multiple apps – dealing with the multiple sets of static
files provided by each application starts to get tricky.

### 8. What are middlewares?
Middleware is a framework of hooks into Django’s request/response processing. It's a "plugin” system for globally
altering Django’s input or output. Each middleware component is responsible for doing some specific function.
A middleware is a callable that takes a request and returns a response, just like a view.
E.g., Django includes a middleware component, AuthenticationMiddleware, that associates users with requests using sessions.


### 9. What do the files that are generated in a Django project do?
* <b>manage.py-</b>  This file is used to interact with your project via the command line(start the server, sync the database… etc). For getting the full list of commands that can be executed by manage.py type this code in the command window
* <b>init_.py</b> – It is a python package. It is invoked when the package or a module in the package is imported. We usually use this to execute package initialization code, for example for the initialization of package-level data.
* <b>settings.py</b> – As the name indicates it contains all the website settings. In this file, we register any applications we create, the location of our static files, database configuration details, etc.
* <b>urls.py</b> – In this file, we store all links of the project and functions to call.
* <b>wsgi.py</b> – This file is used in deploying the project in WSGI. It is used to help your Django application communicate with the webserver.

## Code

### Adding a Library

1. bash into container
2. pip install <...>
3. pip freeze > requirements.txt


### Migrations

#### Make a migration:

    ./manage.py makemigrations
    ./migrate

#### Revert a migration

    ./manage.py migrate <app> <migration number e.g. 0005>
    // delete migration-file which should be reverted


### Docker

#### Bash into container (console):

    docker-compose exec django bash

#### Container management

    docker-compose up // run container
    docker-compose down // clears datatbase

### Flake8
#### Output Format:

    file path : line number : column number : error code : short description

